on september twenty eight, twenty four hours prior to the events of
resident evil two, former special tactics and rescue service
s.t.a.r.s. member jill valentine attempts to escape from
raccoon city. most of the population has been transformed
into zombies by an outbreak of the t virus, a new type of
biological weapon secretly developed by the pharmaceutical
company umbrella. on her way to the raccoon city police
department, jill runs into fellow team member brad vickers,
who is killed by a new enemy. this creature, nemesis t type,
is a bioorganic weapon programmed to target surviving
s.t.a.r.s. members, witnesses of umbrellas experiments.
as she evades nemesis, jill encounters three surviving
members of the umbrella biohazard countermeasure service
u.b.c.s. carlos oliveira, mikhail victor, and nikolai
zinoviev. nikolai explains to jill and carlos that a
rescue helicopter can be contacted if they manage to
reach the citys clock tower and ring the bell.

as they make their way to the tower, nikolai is presumed dead,
while nemesis corners the remaining members of the group on
the cable car headed to the tower. mikhail sacrifices himself
with a grenade, causing the car to crash into the towers
main courtyard and separating jill and carlos briefly. at the
clock tower, jill summons the helicopter by ringing the clock
towers bell before being confronted by nemesis, which destroys
the helicopter and infects jill with the t virus. jill manages
to temporarily defeat nemesis but falls unconscious due to
the t virus. carlos finds jill and takes her to safety within
the clock tower. three days later, he finds a vaccine for
jills t virus infection in a nearby hospital. he then returns
and administers it to jill, saving her.

after she regains consciousness, jill proceeds towards the
raccoon park and enters the park caretakers cabin. there,
she runs into nikolai, who reveals that he is a supervisor
sent into raccoon city to gather combat data of umbrellas
bioweapons. nikolai retreats, and jill is confronted by a
massive wormlike creature. jill defeats the creature and
escapes to an abandoned factory at the rear of the park.
inside the factory, jill meets up with carlos, who tells
her that the u.s. government is planning to launch a nuclear
missile into raccoon city to eradicate the t virus
infestation. after confronting nemesis and grabbing a
keycard needed to escape, jill learns from the factorys
control tower that the missile attack on raccoon city has
begun, with only a short time left before the city is
destroyed.

depending on the path taken by the player, jills final
encounter with nikolai will differ. in one version of the
events, nikolai will attempt to start a gunfight with jill,
only to be taken by surprise by nemesis and killed. in
another event, nikolai will hijack jills intended escape
chopper, and the player must choose to either reason with
nikolai or destroy the helicopter. if jill negotiates with
nikolai, he reveals that he has killed the other supervisors
and boasts about collecting the bounty placed on jill by
umbrella before escaping. regardless of nikolais fate, jill
makes her way to the rear yard and confronts nemesis one last
time. after an intense battle, jill defeats nemesis with the
help of a prototype railgun before meeting up with carlos
and escaping the city via a helicopter. if the previous
escape chopper was stolen by nikolai, jill and carlos will
instead meet up with s.t.a.r.s. alpha teams weapons
specialist barry burton, who helps them escape in his
helicopter. the nuclear missile vaporizes raccoon city, and
jill swears revenge on umbrella. a newscast then briefly
details the destruction, and offers condolences for the lost
lives.